### Welcome to Nervousnet GitHub Page.
The planetary nervous system is a large-scale distributed research platform that provides real-time social sensing services as a public good. Existing Big Data systems threaten social cohesion as they are designed to be closed, proprietary, privacy-intrusive and discriminatory. In contrast, the Planetary Nervous System is an open, privacy-preserving and participatory platform designed to be collectively built by citizens and for citizens.

The planetary nervous system is enabled by Internet of Things technologies and aims at seamlessly interconnecting a large number of different pervasive devices, e.g. mobile phones, smart sensors, etc. For this purpose, several universal state-of-the-art protocols and communication means are introduced. A novel social sensing paradigm shift is engineered: Users are provided with freedom and incentives to share, collect and, at the same time, protect data of their digital environment in real-time. In this way, social sensing turns into a knowledge extraction service of public good.

The social sensing services of the planetary nervous system can be publicly used for building novel innovative applications. Whether you would like to detect an earthquake, perform a secure evacuation or discover the hot spots of a visited city, the Planetary Nervous system makes this possible by collectively sensing social activity of participatory citizens.


### Architecture
Nervousnet consists of two software parts: (i) the Nervousnet backend and (ii) the Nervousnet virtual sensors.
Nervousnet backend

The Nervousnet backend is a distributed middleware software for social sensing. It is responsible for collecting and managing data in a fully decentralized fashion. It also exposes the APIs with which various applications can be built on top, the so called “virtual sensors”. The Nervousnet backend is implemented in two mobile platforms, Android and iOS. It engineers a novel feed loop: (i) Nervousnet stores and manages sensor data. (ii) New data can be generated by performing data analytics on the sensor data. (iii) The new data can be stored and managed back by the Nervousnet backend.

Storage Engine

The storage engine is responsible for the storage and management of sensor data locally in the phone. Data are managed in the following temporal form:

time, sensor type, value(s)

Data are serialized and structured with the Protobuf Buffers system. Two storage implementations are provided for benchmark measurements and comparisons: (i) A red black tree implementation for the Android and (ii) an SQLite implementation for iOS. The storage engine exposes an API with which virtual sensors can stream data back to the Nervousnet backend for a unified seamless storage and management.

Local Analytics Engine

The local analytics engine performs lightweight statistics and machine learning operations on the data of the storage engine. It is the core component that bridges the Nervousnet backend with the virtual sensors. The local analytics engines exposes an extensible and evolving API for accessing the supported operations. New novel sensors can be entirely built by composing a pipeline of API calls to the local analytics engine. Moreover, if this pipeline is generic and relevant for other virtual sensors, it can be integrated in the local analytics engine as part of the Nervousnet backend.


### Authors and Contributors
Prasad P. Pulikal (@prasad79)
Patrick Mistelli (@mistelip)

### Support or Contact
For more information or support check out our website http://www.nervousnet.info
